#LyX 1.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 220
\textclass chess
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{multicol}
\usepackage{chess-workshop-symbols}
\smallboard
\columnsep 0.25in
\columnseprule 0.4pt
\hyphenpenalty 10000
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.5in
\rightmargin 0.5in
\bottommargin 0.5in
\headheight 0cm
\headsep 0cm
\footskip 0in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle empty

\layout Standard
\align center 

\series bold 
\size larger 
Email Chess Game analyzed
\size large 

\newline 

\newline 
Kayvan A.
 Sylvan
\newline 
<kayvan@sylvan.com>
\size default 
\emph on 

\newline 

\newline 
Game start 05/29/2001
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
begin{multicols}{2}
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The following game was played at the IECC (International Email Chess Club).
 It is presented as an example of the fun you can have with LyX's new chess
 layout (based on the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

skak.sty
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 package from CTAN).
\layout Standard
\added_space_top medskip \added_space_bottom smallskip \line_top \line_bottom 

\noun on 
Sylvan, Kayvan
\hfill 
Wakeham, Marc 
\noun default 

\newline 
(1623)
\hfill 
 (1639)
\layout Mainline
\added_space_bottom bigskip 
1.
 e4 c5 2.
 Nc3 d6 3.
 g3 Nc6 4.
 Bg2 e6 5.
 Nge2
\layout BoardCentered

\layout HighLight

d4,f4
\layout Arrow

d2->d4
\layout KnightMove

g1->e2
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
vspace*{-1in} % This is a hack!
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

So far, so good.
 The e2 knight controls the d4 and f4 squares, preparing an eventual d4
 push.
 The diagrammed position has been reached before in hundreds of GM games.
\layout Mainline

5...
 Be7?! 
\layout Variation

5...
 Nge7}
\backslash 
equal{} was better.{
\layout Mainline

6.
 d4 cxd4 7.
 Nxd4 a6
\layout Standard

With 7...
 a6, we are back in the well-trodden theory of this opening.
\layout BoardCentered

\layout Mainline

8.
 Nxc6 bxc6 9.
 O-O Bb7 10.
 Qg4 Bf6 11.
 Bf4 Ne7 12.
 Rad1
\layout BoardCentered

\layout Arrow

a1->d1
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
vspace*{-0.5in} % Another hack!
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

White continues to develop pieces and also sets a trap for Black.
\layout Mainline

12...
 O-O?} This move loses instantly.
 {
\layout Standard

The following was better, even though white retains the upper hand.
\layout Variation

12...
 e5 13.
 Be3 Qc7 14.
 Na4 O-O } 
\backslash 
wbetter {
\layout Mainline

13.
 e5!
\layout Standard

Black's knight and bishop form a bumbling pair here.
 The bishop is doomed.
\layout Mainline

13...
 Nd5!? 14.
 Bxd5 cxd5 15.
 exf6 Qxf6 16.
 Bxd6 Rfd8 17.
 Bc7 Rd7 18.
 Bf4 1-0
\layout BoardCentered

\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
end{multicols}
\end_inset 


\the_end
