#LyX 1.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 220
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{chess-workshop-symbols}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single 
\papersize letterpaper
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\topmargin 0in
\bottommargin 0.5in
\headheight 0in
\headsep 0in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle empty

\layout Title

Email Chess Game analyzed
\layout Author

Kayvan A.
 Sylvan
\newline 
<kayvan@sylvan.com>
\layout Date


\emph on 
Game start 05/29/2001
\layout Standard

The following game was played at the IECC (International Email Chess Club).
 It is presented as an example of the fun you can have with LyX's new chess
 support.
 You must have xboard installed on your machine to be able to open and view
 the chess positions from LyX.
\layout Standard
\line_top \line_bottom 

\noun on 
Sylvan, Kayvan
\hfill 
Wakeham, Marc 
\newline 
(1623)
\hfill 
(1639)
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Open

\layout Standard

\backslash 
newgame
\backslash 
smallboard%
\layout Standard

\backslash 
mainline{1. e4 c5 2. Nc3 d6 3. g3 Nc6 4. Bg2 e6 5. Nge2}
\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\added_space_top medskip 

\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
[
\end_inset 


\begin_inset External ChessDiagram,"iecc05.fen",""

\end_inset 


\begin_inset ERT
status Inlined

\layout Standard

\backslash 
]
\backslash 
printknightmove{g1}{e2}
\backslash 
highlight{d4,f4}
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

So far, so good.
 This is all according to theory.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Open

\layout Standard

\backslash 
mainline{5... Be7?!} 
\backslash 
variation{5... Nge7}
\backslash 
equal %
\layout Standard

\backslash 
mainline{6. d4 cxd4 7. Nxd4 a6}
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

With 7...\SpecialChar ~
a6, we are back in the well-trodden theory of this opening.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
[
\end_inset 


\begin_inset External ChessDiagram,"iecc07.fen",""

\end_inset 


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
]
\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Open

\layout Standard

\backslash 
mainline{8. Nxc6 bxc6 9. O-O Bb7 10. Qg4 Bf6 11. Bf4 Ne7 12. Rad1}
\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
[
\end_inset 


\begin_inset External ChessDiagram,"iecc12.fen",""

\end_inset 


\begin_inset ERT
status Inlined

\layout Standard

\backslash 
]
\backslash 
printarrow{a1}{d1}
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

White continues to develop pieces and also sets a trap for Black.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Open

\layout Standard

\backslash 
mainline{12... O-O?} This loses instantly.
\layout Standard
Best was 
\backslash 
variation{12... e5 13. Be3 Qc7 14. Na4 O-O}
\backslash 
wbetter
\layout Standard

\backslash 
mainline{13. e5!} Black's knight and bishop form a bumbling pair here, the Bishop is doomed.
\layout Standard

\backslash 
mainline{13... Nd5!? 14. Bxd5 cxd5 15. exf6 Qxf6 16. Bxd6 Rfd8 17. Bc7 Rd7 18. Bf4 1-0 }%
\layout Standard

\backslash 
[
\backslash 
showboard
\backslash 
]
\end_inset 


\the_end
