#LyX 1.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 220
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[eurosym]{eurofont}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding latin9
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Currency symbols and LyX
\layout Author

by Adrien Rebollo
\layout Standard

To obtain the main currency symbols with LaTeX, we need to use special packages.
 Here we give a brief description of how to display and print the euro,
 cent, yen and general currency symbols.
 The dollar and the pound need no special trick, so we won't speak about
 them.
\layout Section

The euro symbol
\layout Standard

To print the euro symbol, you need to get the eurofont package, available
 at 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{/macros/latex/contrib/supported/eurofont}

\end_inset 

 in the CTAN.
 You'll need therefore to add to the LaTeX preamble of your LyX document
 the command : 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
usepackage{eurofont}
\family default 
.
 See the preamble of this document to figure out.
 Then you can always obtain the euro symbol in your printed document by
 typing 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
euro{}
\family default 
 in TeX mode, like this : 
\begin_inset ERT
status Inlined

\layout Standard

\backslash 
euro{}
\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

The shape of the symbol in the printed version tends to be better when you
 install the eurosym package too.
 It is available at 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{/fonts/eurosym}

\end_inset 

 in the CTAN.
 Then you declare eurofont with the 
\family typewriter 
eurosym
\family default 
 option, like this : 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
usepackage[eurosym]{eurofont}
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

As a next step, we'll configure LyX to display a WYSIWYM euro symbol.
 First you have to select latin9 screen fonts, as the euro is not in the
 common latin1 encoding.
 In the 
\family sans 
Edit\SpecialChar \menuseparator
Preferences
\family default 
 popup, enter 
\family typewriter 
iso8859-15
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

latin9 is the common name for the 
\family typewriter 
iso8859-15
\family default 
 encoding, and latin1 for 
\family typewriter 
iso8859-1
\family default 
.
\end_inset 


\family default 
 in the 
\family sans 
Screen\SpecialChar ~
fonts\SpecialChar \menuseparator
Encoding
\family default 
 field, and of course you'll have to choose fonts that are available on
 your system in this encoding.
\layout Standard

You should properly configure your X server if you want the euro symbol
 directly on your keyboard.
 You can also try the keymap files in LyX : 
\family typewriter 
european.kmap
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
francais.kmap
\family default 
 should normally support the euro symbol at its usual place.
 Select your keymap in the 
\family sans 
Language\SpecialChar \menuseparator
Keymap
\family default 
 fields.
\layout Standard

The last step is to tell LyX that the encoding of your document is latin9.
 You do this in the 
\family sans 
Format\SpecialChar \menuseparator
Document
\family default 
 popup.
 It requires your LaTeX distribution to have the appropriate 
\family typewriter 
latin9.def
\family default 
 file for the 
\family typewriter 
inputenc
\family default 
 package.
 It is in the recent LaTeX distributions, and is available at 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{/macros/latex/unpacked}

\end_inset 

 in the CTAN.
\layout Standard

If you see an euro symbol here : ¤, and not some horrible glyph, that's
 OK.
 Now try to view the DVI file.
 If LaTeX doesn't complain and the printed version seems fine, you're done.
\layout Section

Other currency symbols
\layout Standard

All the symbols we present here are not available with LaTeX natively.
 But including the eurofont package gives access to all of them.
\layout Description

The\SpecialChar ~
cent\SpecialChar ~
symbol If your keyboard allows the direct display of the cent symbol
 ¢, great, if not you'll have to type 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
textcent{}
\family default 
 in TeX mode, like this : 
\begin_inset ERT
status Inlined

\layout Standard

\backslash 
textcent{}
\end_inset 

.
\layout Description

The\SpecialChar ~
yen\SpecialChar ~
symbol Same story as above, typing 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
yen{}
\family default 
, like this : 
\begin_inset ERT
status Inlined

\layout Standard

\backslash 
textyen{}
\end_inset 

, or directly ¥.
\layout Description

The\SpecialChar ~
general\SpecialChar ~
currency\SpecialChar ~
symbol It is a horrible mix of cross and circle.
 You cannot obtain it on screen together with the euro symbol, because it
 is corresponding in latin1 to the euro in latin9.
 You have just to type 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
textcurrency{}
\family default 
 in TeX mode : 
\begin_inset ERT
status Inlined

\layout Standard

\backslash 
textcurrency{}
\end_inset 

.
 If your screen fonts are latin1, you'll see it here : ¤.
 If they are latin9, you'll have a euro symbol instead.
\layout Description

The\SpecialChar ~
vertical\SpecialChar ~
broken\SpecialChar ~
bar Of course it is not a currency symbol, but it is one
 that you can't obtain with plain LaTeX, but provided when you include eurofont.
 You type 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
textbrokenbar{}
\family default 
 in TeX mode : 
\begin_inset ERT
status Inlined

\layout Standard

\backslash 
textbrokenbar{}
\end_inset 

.
 You'll have it on your keyboard if your X configuration is real good, and
 it will only display with latin1 screen fonts : ¦ .
 (With latin9 it is an s with a caron.)
\the_end
