#LyX 1.4.0cvs created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 243
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass cv
\begin_preamble
%% You can modify the fonts used in the document be using the
%% following macros. They take one parameter which is the font
%% changing command.
%% \headerfont: the font used in both headers.
%%              Defaults to sans serif.
%% \titlefont:  the font used for the title.
%%              Defaults to \LARGE sans-serif semi bold condensed.
%% \sectionfont: the font used by \section when beginning a new topic.
%%              Defaults to sans-serif semi bold condensed.
%% \itemfont:   the font used in descriptions of items.
%%              Defaults to sans-serif slanted.
% to make your name even bigger, uncomment the following line:
% \titlefont{\Huge}
%%
%% You can modify the following parameters using \renewcommand:
%% \topicmargin: the left margin inside topics.
%%               Defaults to 20% of the text width (0.20\textwidth).
% To get more room for left column of Topic layouts, uncomment following line:
% \setlength{\topicmargin}{0.3\textwidth}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth -1
\tocdepth -1
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes true
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Left Header

123 Hamlet Street
\newline
Stratford-upon-Avon
\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Header

TEL: 888-PUCK
\newline

\family typewriter
\size small
bill@globe.org
\end_layout

\begin_layout Title

William Shakespeare
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

Some people put a summary here.
 Note: there are many LaTeX variables you can set in the preamble to change
 the look of the CV.
 Look there (choose 
\family sans
\bar under
L
\bar default
ayout
\family default
\SpecialChar \menuseparator

\family sans
\bar under
L
\bar default

\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Standard
{}
\end_layout

\end_inset

aTeX\InsetSpace ~
Preamble...
\family default
) for examples.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section

Work Experience
\end_layout

\begin_layout Topic
\labelwidthstring MMMMM

1593--1609 Wrote and produced plays for the Queen, and then for the King.
 He really liked them a lot, but they reminded him of plays by this guy,
 the Earl of Oxford.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Topic
\labelwidthstring MMMMM

\InsetSpace ~
 If a topic does not have a subtitle, you have to put a protected space
 there.
 This is a shortcoming of LyX.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard

But you can also use the paragraph depth setting, depending on what you
 want to do.
\end_layout
\end_deeper
\begin_layout Section

Education
\end_layout

\begin_layout Topic
\labelwidthstring MMMMM

1577--78 My Dad taught me stuff.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Topic
\labelwidthstring MMMMM

April\InsetSpace ~
to\InsetSpace ~
May\InsetSpace ~
1581 Tried high school.
 Hated my English teacher.
 [Two things here: first, note (on paper) how a linebreak is inserted if
 your subtitle is too long; second, note that you have to use unbreakable
 spaces to embed spaces in the subtitle.]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section

Publications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\labelwidthstring Publications
\bibitem {firstref}

First Folio.
 Me.
 1623.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\labelwidthstring Publications
\bibitem {secondref}

These references could have been entered via BibTeX\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 In any case, here I
 can cite my work of 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{firstref}

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
