#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 506
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin /systemlyxdir/examples/
\textclass article
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 0
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle plain
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
THIS IS THE TITLE OF THE DOCUMENT
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
by Fee \SpecialChar LyX

\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
June 12, 1972
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Basic Philosophy
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The basic philosophy of \SpecialChar LyX
 is that you should worry about the content of what
 you're writing and not the form.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
How \SpecialChar LyX
 does it
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\SpecialChar LyX
 uses \SpecialChar LaTeX
, a document preparation system designed by Leslie Lamport in 1985.
 It, in turn, was built up from a typesetting language called \SpecialChar TeX
, created
 by Donald Knuth in 1984.
 \SpecialChar LaTeX
 is designed around a philosophy similar to that of \SpecialChar LyX
.
 Leslie Lamport once said (see reference 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "lamport"

\end_inset

):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
The function of typographic design is to help the reader understand the
 author's ideas.
 For a document to be easy to read, its visual structure must reflect its
 logical structure.
 Quotations and computer programs, being logically distinct structural elements,
 should be distinguished visually from one another....
 Since \SpecialChar LaTeX
 can't understand your prose, you must explicitly indicate the logical
 structure by typing special commands....
 As you are writing your document, you should be concerned with its logical
 structure, not its visual appearance.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Why \SpecialChar LyX
 is better
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:lyxbetter"

\end_inset

\SpecialChar LyX
 can be useful to more people than \SpecialChar LaTeX
.
 It's considerably easier to learn, because you don't need to learn \SpecialChar LaTeX
 (which
 is practically a programming language).
 \SpecialChar LyX
 is basically like other 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

What you see is what you get
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 word processors, except that \SpecialChar LyX
 is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

What you see is what you mean
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 In this way, it combines the ease of use of word processors with the power
 of \SpecialChar LaTeX
.
 This is a Good Thing.
 Also, the file format is platform independent.
 Best of all, it's FREE!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Features of \SpecialChar LyX

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\SpecialChar LyX
 has many features which make writing documents easier.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
After all, why else would you want to use it?
\end_layout

\end_inset

 I'm 
\shape italic
very excited
\shape default
 to talk about them.
 Here's a list of just a few.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
\SpecialChar LyX
 worries about margins, and footnote numbering for you
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
\SpecialChar LyX
 makes it simple to write and edit mathematical formulae
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For a more philosophical discussion of why \SpecialChar LyX
 is better than lots of other
 word processors, see Section 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "sec:lyxbetter"

\end_inset

, which can be found on page 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand pageref
reference "sec:lyxbetter"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Lame attempts to use other \SpecialChar LyX
 stuff
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I wrote a program the other day.
 It looked like this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
5 REMARK MY AWESOME PROGRAM
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
10 PRINT 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

I'M AWESOME!
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
20 GOTO 10
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After all that scientific thinking, I started feeling more artistic, so
 I wrote this haiku
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
\SpecialChar LyX
 is really great 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Typesetting word processor
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 It saves so much time
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Math Stuff
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My favorite equation is the solution to a quadratic equation.
 If 
\begin_inset Formula $ax^{2}+bx+c=0$
\end_inset

 (eq.1), then 
\begin_inset Formula $x=\frac{-b\pm\sqrt{b^{2}-4ac}}{2a}$
\end_inset

 (eq.
 2).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another favorite equation is the basis of calculus: 
\begin_inset Formula $f'(x)\equiv\lim_{\Delta x\rightarrow0}\frac{f(x+\Delta x)-f(x)}{\Delta x}$
\end_inset

 (eq.
 3).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Notes
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A couple notes about \SpecialChar LyX
ifiying this file:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
I was able to remove the lines made with dashes.
 They were there purely to separate the title and references from the rest
 of the document.
 \SpecialChar LyX
 (\SpecialChar LaTeX
) knows enough to separate these parts of the document with space.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
I didn't bother putting the math equations in display mode.
 Also, I didn't use \SpecialChar LyX
' automatic equation numbering, because it's not described
 in the 
\emph on
Tutorial
\emph default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
I didn't have to type the word 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

References
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 below.
 \SpecialChar LyX
 automatically writes it (or the word 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Bibliography,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 depending on the textclass) when you select 
\family sans
Bibliography
\family default
 style.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "lamport"

\end_inset

Lamport, Leslie.
 
\emph on
\SpecialChar LaTeX
: A Document Preparation System.

\emph default
 Addison-Wesley, Reading, Massachusetts, second edition, 1994.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
