#This file was created by <lasgoutt> Fri Dec 10 15:51:46 1999
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics dvips
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single 
\papersize letterpaper
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle plain

\layout Standard

THIS IS THE TITLE OF THE DOCUMENT 
\begin_inset Info Hint: the title should look more like a title
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

by Fee LyX
\begin_inset Info Hint: Fee is the AUTHOR
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

June 12, 1972
\begin_inset Info Hint: this is a DATE
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Table of Contents
\begin_inset Info Hint: It would be nice if we didn't have to type the Table
of Contents explicitly
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

1.
 Basic Philosophy..................1
\layout Standard

1.1 How LyX Does It...............1
\layout Standard

1.2 Why LyX is Better...............1
\layout Standard

2.
 Features of LyX
\layout Standard

3.
 Lame Attempts to use more LyX stuff
\layout Standard

4.
 Math Stuff
\layout Standard

---------------------------------------------------
\layout Standard

1.
 Basic Philosophy
\begin_inset Info Hint: Section titles should probably stand out more
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The basic philosophy of LyX is that you should worry about the content of
 what you're writing and not the form.
\layout Standard

1.1 How LyX does it
\layout Standard

LyX uses LaTeX, a document preparation system designed by Leslie Lamport
 in 1985.
 It, in turn, was built up from a typesetting language called TeX, created
 by Donald Knuth in 1984.
 LaTeX is designed around a philosophy similar to that of LyX.
 Leslie Lamport once said (see reference [1])
\begin_inset Info Hint: Probably, this CITATION REFERENCE shouldn't be
"hard-coded". What if we make Lamport's book the second
 item in the bibliography?
\end_inset 

:
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

The function of typographic design is to help the reader understand the
 author's ideas.
 For a document to be easy to read, its visual structure must reflect its
 logical structure.
 Quotations and computer programs, being logically distinct structural elements,
 should be distinguished visually from one another....
 Since LaTeX can't understand your prose, you must explicitly indicate the
 logical structure by typing special commands....
 As you are writing your document, you should be concerned with its logical
 structure, not its visual appearance.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\begin_inset Info Hint: This is a QUOTE
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

1.2 Why LyX is better
\layout Standard

LyX can be useful to more people than LaTeX.
 It's considerably easier to learn, because you don't need to learn LaTeX
 (which is practically a programming language).
 LyX is basically like other 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

What you see is what you get
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 word processors, except that LyX is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

What you see is what you mean
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 In this way, it combines the ease of use of word processors with the power
 of LaTeX.
 This is a Good Thing.
 Also, the file format is platform independent.
 Best of all, it's FREE!
\layout Standard

2.
 Features of LyX
\layout Standard

LyX has many features which make writing documents easier.
 (After all, why else would you want to use it?
\begin_inset Info Hint: This parenthetical statement would look better in a footnote
\end_inset 

) I'm VERY EXCITED
\begin_inset Info Hint: Emphasize!
\end_inset 

 to talk about them.
 Here's a list of just a few.
\layout Standard

* LyX worries about margins, and footnote numbering for you
\layout Standard

* LyX makes it simple to write and edit mathematical formulae
\layout Standard

For a more philosophical discussion of why LyX is better than lots of other
 word processors, see Section 1.2, which can be found on page 1.
\begin_inset Info Hint: Probably, these CROSS-REFERENCES shouldn't be
"hard-coded". What if we change the section numbers?
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

3.
 Lame attempts to use other LyX stuff
\layout Standard

I wrote a program the other day.
 It looked like this.
\layout Standard

5 REMARK MY AWESOME PROGRAM
\layout Standard

10 PRINT 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

I'M AWESOME!
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

20 GOTO 10 
\begin_inset Info Hint: This is computer CODE
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

After all that scientific thinking, I started feeling more artistic, so
 I wrote this haiku
\layout Standard

LyX is really great
\layout Standard

Typesetting word processor
\layout Standard

It saves so much time 
\begin_inset Info Hint: It's not very good, but it is poetry,
otherwise known as VERSE
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

4.
 Math Stuff
\begin_inset Info Hint: these math things should be printed in math mode!
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

My favorite equation is the solution to a quadratic equation.
 If ax^2+bx+c=0 (eq.1), then x= -b + or minus the square root of b^2-4ac
 all divided by 2a (eq.
 2).
\layout Standard

Another favorite equation is the basis of calculus: f'(x) is defined as
 the limit as deltax goes to zero of f(x+deltax) - f(x) divided by deltax
 (eq.
 3).
\layout Standard

------------------------------------------------
\layout Standard

REFERENCES
\layout Standard

[1] Lamport, Leslie.
 LaTeX: A Document Preparation System.
 Addison-Wesley, Reading, Massachusetts, second edition, 1994.
\the_end
