#This file was created by <mike> Tue Jan 25 11:50:08 2000
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{multicol}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Multiple Columns
\layout Author

by 
\noun on 
Lars Gullik Bjønnes
\layout Section

Purpose
\layout Standard

The aim for this chapter is to show how the LaTeX package 
\family typewriter 
multicol
\family default 
 can be used in a LyX document.
 As LyX doesn't support the 
\family typewriter 
multicol
\family default 
 package natively yet, we have to use some small hacks.
 By reading this section it should be obvious how to do this.
\layout Subsection

Limitations 
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
multicol
\family default 
 package allows switching between one and multicolumn format on the same
 page.
 Footnotes are handled correctly (for the most part), but will be placed
 at the bottom of the page and not under each column.
 LaTeX's float mechanism, however, is partly disabled in the current implementat
ion.
 At the moment only page-wide floats can be used within the scope of the
 environment.
\layout Subsection

Examples
\layout Subsubsection

Two columns
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom -2ex 
If you want to have two columns in your text, you have use LaTeX mode to
 insert 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
begin{multicols}{2}
\family default 
 at the point where you want the two column layout to start, and then 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
end{multicols}
\family default 
 where you want it to end.
 Like this:
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
begin{multicols}{2}
\layout Standard
\noindent 

\series bold 
\size small 
The Adventure of the Empty House
\series default 

\newline 
by 
\noun on 
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
\layout Standard


\size small 
It was in the spring of the year 1894 that all London was interested, and
 the fashionable world dismayed, by the murder of the Honourable Ronald
 Adair under most unusual and inexplicable circumstances.
 The public has already learned those particulars of the crime which came
 out in the police investigation, but a good deal was suppressed upon that
 occasion, since the case for the prosecution was so overwhelmingly strong
 that it was not necessary to bring forward all the facts.
 Only now, at the end of nearly ten years, am I allowed to supply those
 missing links which make up the whole of that remarkable chain.
 The crime was of interest in itself, but that interest was as nothing to
 me compared to the inconceivable sequel, which afforded me the greatest
 shock and surprise of any event in my adventurous life.
 Even now, after this long interval, I find myself thrilling as I think
 of it, and feeling once more that sudden flood of joy, amazement, and increduli
ty which utterly submerged my mind.
 Let me say to that public, which has shown some interest in those glimpses
 which I have occasionally given them of the thoughts and actions of a very
 remarkable man, that they are not to blame me if I have not shared my knowledge
 with them, for I should have considered it my first duty to do so, had
 I not been barred by a positive prohibition from his own lips, which was
 only withdrawn upon the third of last month.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
end{multicols}
\layout Subsubsection

Multiple columns
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom -2ex 
The same pattern is used when you want more than two columns.
 (You can have more than 3 columns if you want , but that might not be very
 pleasant for the eye.)
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
begin{multicols}{3}
\layout Standard


\size footnotesize 
It can be imagined that my close intimacy with Sherlock Holmes had interested
 me deeply in crime, and that after his disappearance I never failed to
 read with care the various problems which came before the public.
 And I even attempted, more than once, for my own private satisfaction,
 to employ his methods in their solution, though with indifferent success.
 There was none, however, which appealed to me like this tragedy of Ronald
 Adair.
 As I read the evidence at the inquest, which led up to a verdict of willful
 murder against some person or persons unknown, I realized more clearly
 than I had ever done the loss which the community had sustained by the
 death of Sherlock Holmes.
 There were points about this strange business which would, I was sure,
 have specially appealed to him, and the efforts of the police would have
 been supplemented, or more probably anticipated, by the trained observation
 and the alert mind of the first criminal agent in Europe.
 All day, as I drove upon my round, I turned over the case in my mind and
 found no explanation which appeared to me to be adequate.
 At the risk of telling a twice-told tale, I will recapitulate the facts
 as they were known to the public at the conclusion of the inquest.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
end{multicols}
\layout Subsubsection

Columns inside columns
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom -2ex 
You can even have columns inside columns:
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
begin{multicols}{2}
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom -2ex 

\size footnotesize 
The Honourable Ronald Adair was the second son of the Earl of Maynooth,
 at that time governor of one of the Australian colonies.
 Adair's mother had returned from Australia to undergo the operation for
 cataract, and she, her son Ronald, and her daughter Hilda were living together
 at 427 Park Lane.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
begin{multicols}{2}
\layout Standard


\size footnotesize 
The youth moved in the best society--had, so far as was known, no enemies
 and no particular vices.
 He had been engaged to Miss Edith Woodley, of Carstairs, but the engagement
 had been broken off by mutual consent some months before, and there was
 no sign that it had left any very profound feeling behind it.
 For the rest {sic} the man's life moved in a narrow and conventional circle,
 for his habits were quiet and his nature unemotional.
 Yet it was upon this easy-going young aristocrat that death came, in most
 strange and unexpected form, between the hours of ten and eleven-twenty
 on the night of March 30, 1894.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
end{multicols}
\layout Standard


\size footnotesize 
Ronald Adair was fond of cards--playing continually, but never for such
 stakes as would hurt him.
 He was a member of the Baldwin, the Cavendish, and the Bagatelle card clubs.
 It was shown that, after dinner on the day of his death, he had played
 a rubber of whist at the latter club.
 He had also played there in the afternoon.

\size default 
 
\size footnotesize 
The evidence of those who had played with him-- Mr.
 Murray, Sir John Hardy, and Colonel Moran--showed that the game was whist,
 and that there was a fairly equal fall of the cards.
 Adair might have lost five pounds, but not more.
 His fortune was a considerable one, and such a loss could not in any way
 affect him.
 He had played nearly every day at one club or other, but he was a cautious
 player, and usually rose a winner.
 It came out in evidence that, in partnership with Colonel Moran, he had
 actually won as much as four hundred and twenty pounds in a sitting, some
 weeks before, from Godfrey Milner and Lord Balmoral.
 So much for his recent history as it came out at the inquest.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
end{multicols}
\layout Subsection

Advanced Examples
\layout Standard

As you probably know 
\family typewriter 
multicol
\family default 
 has several customizing variables.
 The following examples shows how these can be used from LyX.
\layout Subsubsection

Preface and Skip
\layout Standard

If there is less than 5cm left on the page, a page break will be inserted
 before this bit, which has a preface text above the two columns: 
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
begin{multicols}{2}[
\latex default 
And the story continues and continues and continues and continues\SpecialChar \ldots{}

\latex latex 
][5cm]
\layout Standard


\size small 
On the evening of the crime, he returned from the club exactly at ten.
 His mother and sister were out spending the evening with a relation.
 The servant deposed that she heard him enter the front room on the second
 floor, generally used as his sitting-room.
 She had lit a fire there, and as it smoked she had opened the window.
 No sound was heard from the room until eleven-twenty, the hour of the return
 of Lady Maynooth and her daughter.
 Desiring to say good-night, she attempted to enter her son's room.
 The door was locked on the inside, and no answer could be got to their
 cries and knocking.
 Help was obtained, and the door forced.
 The unfortunate young man was found lying near the table.
 His head had been horribly mutilated by an expanding revolver bullet, but
 no weapon of any sort was to be found in the room.
 On the table lay two bank notes for ten pounds each and seventeen pounds
 ten in silver and gold, the money arranged in little piles of varying amount.
 There were some figures also upon a sheet of paper, with the names of some
 club friends opposite to them, from which it was conjectured that before
 his death he was endeavouring to make out his losses or winnings at cards.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
end{multicols}
\layout Subsubsection

Preface and sections
\layout Standard

What if you want the preface to be a sectioning command? That can be done,
 but only through LaTeX commands inside the parameters for the 
\family typewriter 
multicols
\family default 
 command.
 Because of this, the section command can not be provided by LyX:
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
begin{multicols}{2}[
\backslash 
subsubsection{
\latex default 
This is the sectioning command as a preface
\latex latex 
}][5cm]
\layout Standard


\size small 
A minute examination of the circumstances served only to make the case more
 complex.
 In the first place, no reason could be given why the young man should have
 fastened the door upon the inside.
 There was the possibility that the murderer had done this, and had afterwards
 escaped by the window.
 The drop was at least twenty feet, however, and a bed of crocuses in full
 bloom lay beneath.
 Neither the flowers nor the earth showed any sign of having been disturbed,
 nor were there any marks upon the narrow strip of grass which separated
 the house from the road.
 Apparently, therefore, it was the young man himself who had fastened the
 door.
 But how did he come by his death? No one could have climbed up to the window
 without leaving traces.
 Suppose a man had fired through the window, he would indeed be a remarkable
 shot who could with a revolver inflict so deadly a wound.
 Again, Park Lane is a frequented thoroughfare; there is a cab stand within
 a hundred yards of the house.
 No one had heard a shot.
 And yet there was the dead man and there the revolver bullet, which had
 mushroomed out, as soft-nosed bullets will, and so inflicted a wound which
 must have caused instantaneous death.
 Such were the circumstances of the Park Lane Mystery, which were further
 complicated by entire absence of motive, since, as I have said, young Adair
 was not known to have any enemy, and no attempt had been made to remove
 the money or valuables in the room.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
end{multicols}
\layout Subsubsection

Free Space
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
multicol
\family default 
 package demands that a certain amount of space is available before and
 after a multicolumn section.
 In addition 
\family typewriter 
multicol
\family default 
 inserts a given space in front of and after the multicol section.
 The commands to change the default settings for this must be given just
 before the 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
begin{multicols}
\family default 
.
 This example puts a space of 3 cm in front of and after the multicolumn
 text:
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
setlength{
\backslash 
multicolsep}{3cm}
\backslash 
begin{multicols}{2}
\layout Standard


\size small 
All day I turned these facts over in my mind, endeavouring to hit upon some
 theory which could reconcile them all, and to find that line of least resistanc
e which my poor friend had declared to be the starting-point of every investigat
ion.
 I confess that I made little progress.
 In the evening I strolled across the Park, and found myself about six o'clock
 at the Oxford Street end of Park Lane.
 A group of loafers upon the pavements, all staring up at a particular window,
 directed me to the house which I had come to see.
 A tall, thin man with coloured glasses, whom I strongly suspected of being
 a plain-clothes detective, was pointing out some theory of his own, while
 the others crowded round to listen to what he said.
 I got as near him as I could, but his observations seemed to me to be absurd,
 so I withdrew again in some disgust.
 As I did so I struck against an elderly, deformed man, who had been behind
 me, and I knocked down several books which he was carrying.
 I remember that as I picked them up, I observed the title of one of them,
 THE ORIGIN OF TREE WORSHIP, and it struck me that the fellow must be some
 poor bibliophile, who, either as a trade or as a hobby, was a collector
 of obscure volumes.
 I endeavoured to apologize for the accident, but it was evident that these
 books which I had so unfortunately maltreated were very precious objects
 in the eyes of their owner.
 With a snarl of contempt he turned upon his heel, and I saw his curved
 back and white side-whiskers disappear among the throng.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
end{multicols}
\layout Paragraph

Note:
\layout Standard

The values you set with 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
setlength
\family default 
 must be reset to default after use, or you will get the modified value
 in the rest of your document.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
setlength{
\backslash 
multicolsep}{13pt}
\layout Subsubsection

Column Width and Separation
\layout Standard

The width of the columns inside the 
\family sans 
multicols
\family default 
 environment is automatically calculated, but you can modify the space between
 two columns explicitly.
 The space between the following two columns is 3 cm wide:
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
setlength{
\backslash 
columnsep}{3cm}
\backslash 
begin{multicols}{2}
\layout Standard


\size small 
My observations of No.
 427 Park Lane did little to clear up the problem in which I was interested.
 The house was separated from the street by a low wall and railing, the
 whole not more than five feet high.
 It was perfectly easy, therefore, for anyone to get into the garden, but
 the window was entirely inaccessible, since there was no water pipe or
 anything which could help the most active man to climb it.
 More puzzled than ever, I retraced my steps to Kensington.
 I had not been in my study five minutes when the maid entered to say that
 a person desired to see me.
 To my astonishment it was none other than my strange old book collector,
 his sharp, wizened face peering out from a frame of white hair, and his
 precious volumes, a dozen of them at least, wedged under his right arm.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
end{multicols}
\layout Standard

Once again, we have to reset the value after use to avoid using it in the
 rest of the document.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
setlength{
\backslash 
columnsep}{10pt}
\layout Subsubsection

Vertical Lines
\layout Standard

Between every two columns, a rule of width 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
columnseprule
\family default 
 is placed.
 If this rule is set to 0 pt, the rule is suppressed.
 In the following example, the line separating the two columns is 2 pt wide.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
setlength{
\backslash 
columnseprule}{2pt}
\backslash 
begin{multicols}{2}
\layout Standard


\size small 

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

You're surprised to see me, sir,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 said he, in a strange, croaking voice.
\layout Standard


\size small 
I acknowledged that I was.
\layout Standard


\size small 

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Well, I've a conscience, sir, and when I chanced to see you go into this
 house, as I came hobbling after you, I thought to myself, I'll just step
 in and see that kind gentleman, and tell him that if I was a bit gruff
 in my manner there was not any harm meant, and that I am much obliged to
 him for picking up my books.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\size small 

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

You make too much of a trifle,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 said I.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

May I ask how you knew who I was?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\size small 

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Well, sir, if it isn't too great a liberty, I am a neighbour of yours, for
 you'll find my little bookshop at the corner of Church Street, and very
 happy to see you, I am sure.
 Maybe you collect yourself, sir.
 Here's 
\noun on 
British
\protected_separator 
Birds
\noun default 
, and 
\noun on 
Catullus
\noun default 
, and 
\noun on 
The Holy War
\noun default 
--a bargain, every one of them.
 With five volumes you could just fill that gap on that second shelf.
 It looks untidy, does it not, sir?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
end{multicols}
\layout Standard

As usual, we reset the value after use.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
setlength{
\backslash 
columnseprule}{0pt}
\layout Standard

You'll have to go to the library to read the rest of the story.
\begin_float footnote 
\layout Standard

\SpecialChar \ldots{}
or cheat like we did and find it at the Gutenberg project somewhere on the
 Web.
\end_float 
 Believe it or not, but it's actually a bit of a cliff-hanger at this point
 in the story\SpecialChar \ldots{}

\the_end
