#This file was created by <garst> Thu Jan  7 22:44:37 1999
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1998 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass hollywood
\begin_preamble
\renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
\renewcommand{\ref}[1]{#1}
\end_preamble
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize letterpaper
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1.6in
\topmargin 0.5in
\rightmargin 0.75in
\bottommargin 0.75in
\headheight 0.5in
\headsep 12bp
\footskip 0.5in
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Silent Heavens
\layout Author
\added_space_bottom vfill 
by Garst R.
 Reese
\layout Right Address
\pagebreak_bottom 

\size large 
Garst R.
 Reese
\newline 
284 Sydney Street
\newline 
Charlottetown, PE
\newline 
CANADA C1A 1H2
\newline 
(902) 566-3565
\newline 
reese@isn.net
\newline 
WGA/c
\layout EXT.

RURAL NEW ZEALAND ROADSIDE DURING METEOR STORM - NIGHT
\layout Narrative

Earth is colliding with the first meteor storm of the space age.
 The sky is filled with meteor trails.
 As credits role we here (0.S.) OOH's AHH's, the occaisional 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

LOOK AT THAT ONE!
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

WOW
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
\layout Transition

CUT TO:
\layout INT.

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY - DAY
\layout Narrative

War-room like setting.
 Gathering of Generals, scientists and politicos.
 Big wall computer display showing satellite orbits.
\layout Speaker


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{GENERAL BULLMOOSE}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{GENERAL BULLMOOSE}

\end_inset 


\layout Parenthetical

frustrated
\layout Dialogue

How many we gonna loose?
\newline 
Can anybody here make a wild guess?
\layout Speaker


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{DR. NOAD}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{DR. NOAD}

\end_inset 


\layout Dialogue

Pick a number between none and all.
\layout Speaker


\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{GENERAL BULLMOOSE}

\end_inset 


\layout Dialogue

Fuck you smartass.
 I don't need your humor, I need information.
 I got men depending on those goddamned satellites.
 And you better believe that Saddam knows that.
 He knows that's the only reason our tanks were able to sneek around his
 defenses.
 They go, he comes, we die.
\layout Speaker


\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{DR. NOAD}

\end_inset 


\layout Parenthetical

taking a deep breath
\layout Dialogue

My apologies general.
 It was not my intention to make light of your situation.
 My own frustrations pale in the light of your responsibilites.
 The estimates I have received all fall into the category of wild guesses.
 I'll do my best to tell you what we know we can expect.
\layout Speaker


\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{GENERAL BULLMOOSE}

\end_inset 


\layout Dialogue

From the look on your face, I can tell you are not going to be bearer of
 good news.
 Don't worry, we no longer shoot bearers of bad news.
 Go ahead.
\layout Speaker


\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{DR. NOAD}

\end_inset 


\layout Dialogue

Even if the satellites are not hit directly, the atomospheric ionization
 is likely to disrupt communications for several hours, and possibly several
 days.
 During that period we will not know how many survived.
\the_end
