#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass simplecv
\begin_preamble
%% You can modify the fonts used in the document be using the
%% following macros. They take one parameter which is the font
%% changing command.
%% \headerfont: the font used in both headers.
%%              Defaults to sans serif.
%% \titlefont:  the font used for the title.
%%              Defaults to \LARGE sans-serif semi bold condensed.
%% \sectionfont: the font used by \section when beginning a new topic.
%%              Defaults to sans-serif semi bold condensed.
%% \itemfont:   the font used in descriptions of items.
%%              Defaults to sans-serif slanted.
% to make your name even bigger, uncomment the following line:
% \titlefont{\Huge}
%%
%% You can modify the following parameters using \renewcommand:
%% \topicmargin: the left margin inside topics.
%%               Defaults to 20% of the column width (0.20\columnwidth).
% To get more room for left column of Topic layouts, uncomment following line:
% \renewcommand{\topicmargin}{0.3\columnwidth}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding default
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 0
\tocdepth 0
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Left Header
123 Hamlet Street
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Stratford-upon-Avon
\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Header
TEL: 888-PUCK
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\family typewriter
\size small
bill@globe.org
\end_layout

\begin_layout Title
William Shakespeare
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some people put a summary here.
 Note: there are many LaTeX variables you can set in the preamble to change
 the look of the CV.
 Look there (choose 
\family sans
Document
\family default
\SpecialChar \menuseparator

\family sans
Settings...

\family default
 ) for examples.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Work Experience
\end_layout

\begin_layout Topic
\labelwidthstring MMMMM
1593--1609 Wrote and produced plays for the Queen, and then for the King.
 He really liked them a lot, but they reminded him of plays by this guy,
 the Earl of Oxford.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Topic
\labelwidthstring MMMMM
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

 If a topic does not have a subtitle, you have to put a protected space
 there.
 This is a shortcoming of LyX.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
But you can also use the paragraph depth setting, depending on what you
 want to do.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Section
Education
\end_layout

\begin_layout Topic
\labelwidthstring MMMMM
1577--78 My Dad taught me stuff.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Topic
\labelwidthstring MMMMM
April
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

to
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

May
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

1581 Tried high school.
 Hated my English teacher.
 [Two things here: first, note (on paper) how a linebreak is inserted if
 your subtitle is too long; second, note that you have to use unbreakable
 spaces to embed spaces in the subtitle.]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Publications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\labelwidthstring Publications
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "firstref"

\end_inset

First Folio.
 Me.
 1623.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\labelwidthstring Publications
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "secondref"

\end_inset

These references could have been entered via BibTeX\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 In any case, here I
 can cite my work of 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "firstref"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
