#LyX 2.4 created this file. For more info see https://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 566
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
% Chinese localization
\@ifpackageloaded{fontspec}%
{\usepackage{ctex}}% ctex with non-TeX fonts
{%\usepackage[UTF8]{ctex}% error with font setup (missing font?)
}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language chinese-traditional
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8-cjk
\fontencoding auto
\font_roman "lmodern" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\font_cjk bsmi
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement class
\float_alignment class
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index 索引
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip 2ex
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
\SpecialChar LyX

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is a Chinese test document for \SpecialChar LyX
 with the CJK package.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
\noindent
The 
\emph on
Table of Contents 
\emph default
heading appears as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Contents
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 with PDF (pdflatex).
 This is fixed with 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

non-TeX fonts
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 by use of the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

ctex
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 package (see preamble).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The prefix 
\emph on
Chapter
\emph default
 in the chapter heading is not translated — not even with 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

ctex
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
\noindent
Without a 
\backslash
clearpage before closing the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

CJK
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 environment, Chinese characters in a section title lead to errors like
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout LyX-Code
\noindent
! Package inputenc Error: Unicode char 中 (U+4E2D) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
\noindent
(inputenc) not set up for use with LaTeX.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing single
\noindent
(cf.
 Test document for part
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

2 of 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "#5386"
target "https://www.lyx.org/trac/ticket/5386"
literal "false"

\end_inset

).
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Section
Section in English
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This section head is in English.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Section in Chinese 中文名
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This section head is in Chinese.
 這節的標題是中文。
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
