#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrartcl
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman palatino
\font_sans lmss
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle empty
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Short introduction to install LyX 2.0
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thispagestyle{empty}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To install LyX, do the following:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Prepare your system for LyX.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
If this is your first time installing LyX, make sure you have installed
 a recent version of MacTeX: 
\begin_inset Flex URL
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

http://www.tug.org/mactex
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 Since LyX relies on LaTeX to typeset documents, it is not intended to produce
 output without it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
If you have previously used LyX-1.6 and want to continue to use your Preferences
 do the following:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
In the Finder, navigate from your home folder => Library => Application
 Support, and select the LyX-1.6 folder.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Duplicate this folder (File > Duplicate).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Rename the copy to LyX-2.0.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Open the LyX-2.0 disk image (you probably did it already if you are reading
 this).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Drag the LyX icon to Applications folder.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Start LyX.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Visit the list of new features at 
\begin_inset Flex URL
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

http://wiki.lyx.org/LyX/NewInLyX20
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
