#LyX 2.4 created this file. For more info see https://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 566
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin /systemlyxdir/examples/ja/
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
% CJKutf8 (4.8.4) maps the Greek letter mu to a mathematical (italic)
% symbol $\mu$ unless the package "textcomp" is loaded.
\usepackage{textcomp}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language japanese-cjk
\language_package auto
\inputencoding utf8-cjk
\fontencoding auto
\font_roman "DejaVuSerif" "IPAMincho"
\font_sans "default" "IPAGothic"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\font_cjk min
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement class
\float_alignment class
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index 索引
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style cjk
\dynamic_quotes 1
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title

\lang english
Multilingual typesetting with CJKutf8
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
\begin_inset Info
type  "moddate"
arg   "long"
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang english
For multi-lingual documents, with parts in European languages, you can use
 the CJK LaTeX bundle:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\lang english
Set a standard document classe (the document classes starting with 
\begin_inset Quotes bld
\end_inset

Japanese
\begin_inset Quotes brd
\end_inset

 use platex).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\lang english
Set the language to 
\begin_inset Quotes bld
\end_inset

Japanese (CJK)
\begin_inset Quotes brd
\end_inset

 and the encoding to 
\begin_inset Quotes bld
\end_inset

Unicode (CJK) (utf8)
\begin_inset Quotes brd
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\lang english
Some fonts are substituted with fallback 
\begin_inset Quotes bld
\end_inset

CM roman regular
\begin_inset Quotes brd
\end_inset

 (
\emph on
DejaVu
\emph default
 and 
\emph on
Libertine
\emph default
 work).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang english
Then, the following should work:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
\SpecialChar LyX
は優秀な取扱説明書を同梱していますので、これをお使いください！まずは
\family sans
ヘルプ\SpecialChar menuseparator
はじめの一歩
\family default
から始めてください。これは、各取扱説明書を簡潔に紹介しています。つぎに
\family sans
ヘルプ\SpecialChar menuseparator
入門篇
\family default
をお読みになれば、\SpecialChar LyX
の使い方を学ぶことができます。
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Short texts may be written without setting the language (hyphenation will
 be missing and spell-checking complain): Greetings; Grüße; Приветы; χαιρετισμός
\lang greek

\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\lang english
CJKutf8 (4.8.4) maps the Greek letter 
\lang greek
μ
\lang english
 to a mathematical (italic) symbol 
\begin_inset Formula $\mu$
\end_inset

 unless the package 
\family typewriter
textcomp
\family default
 is loaded.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
For longer text parts, it is recommended to set the correct language:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Description

\lang english
English: Hello Mr.
 Sandman!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\lang ngerman
Deutsch: Grüße aus Österreich!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\lang ngerman
Griechisch:
\lang greek
 χαιρετισμός
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\lang ngerman
Russisch:
\lang russian
 Привет с 
\series bold
новым
\series default
 годом!
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\end_body
\end_document
