#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin /systemlyxdir/examples/Graphics_and_Insets/
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{xcolor}
\definecolor{lgray}{rgb}{0.95, 0.95, 0.95}
\usepackage{eso-pic}
\newlength{\boxwidth}
\newlength{\boxheight}
\setlength{\boxwidth}{\paperwidth}
\setlength{\boxheight}{\paperheight}
\addtolength{\boxwidth}{-1.2cm}
\addtolength{\boxheight}{-2.5cm}
\AddToShipoutPicture{%
   \setlength{\@tempdimb}{0.5cm}%
   \setlength{\@tempdimc}{1.0cm}%
   \put(\strip@pt\@tempdimb,\strip@pt\@tempdimc){%
     \hbox{\fboxrule=0.6pt\fbox{\vbox to \boxheight{%
     \vss\hbox to \boxwidth{\hss}\vss}}}}%
   \addtolength{\@tempdimc}{\boxheight}%
   \addtolength{\@tempdimc}{6.5pt}%
   \put(\strip@pt\@tempdimb,\strip@pt\@tempdimc){%
     \hbox{\fboxrule=0.6pt\fcolorbox{black}{lgray}{\vbox to 3.5mm{%
     \vss\hbox to \boxwidth{\hss\textbf{\textsf{\small\titlename}}\hss%
     \hbox to 0pt{\hss\textsf{\footnotesize Page \arabic{page}/\pageref{lastpage}~}}}\vss}}}}%
}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "times" "DejaVu Sans Mono"
\font_sans "helvet" "DejaVu Sans"
\font_typewriter "courier" "DejaVu Sans Mono"
\font_math "auto" "default"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 95 95
\font_tt_scale 110 110
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf4
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation landscape
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 0.5cm
\topmargin 1.35cm
\rightmargin 0.5cm
\bottommargin 1.05cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle empty
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This example shows a possible use of the minted package (version 2.1 or later)
 for typesetting listings containing unicode characters.
 For this reason, the default output format is 
\family typewriter
PDF (XeTeX)
\family default
.
 The listing is typeset using the DejaVu font.
 If this font is not installed on your system, you need to choose a different
 one in Document\SpecialChar menuseparator
Settings\SpecialChar menuseparator
Fonts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Other than the minted latex package, you also need the pygments python module.
 See the minted documentation for directions on how to install it and what
 you have to do for using it with LaTeX.
 If you use a linux system, you can possibly install a suitable package
 through your package manager.
 Look for python packages named 
\family typewriter
python-pygments
\family default
 or similar.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Another required package is the 
\family typewriter
eso-pic
\family default
 latex package, so you also need to install it.
 It is used to draw a page frame around the listing.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
def
\backslash
titlename{lyxpak.py}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This is the title of the listing appearing in the headers.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset include
LatexCommand inputminted
filename "../../scripts/lyxpak.py"
lstparams "language=python,style=bw,fontsize={\\tiny},baselinestretch={1.05},frame=leftline,framesep=10pt,breaklines,breakanywhere"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "lastpage"

\end_inset


\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This label is needed to show the total number of pages in upper-right corner
 of the PDF.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
