#This file was created by <lasgoutt> Thu Jul  1 15:12:26 1999
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Known BUGS in LyX
\layout Date

Last updated 1999-07-01
\layout Standard

This file contains a compilation of bug reports that have been sent to the
 mailing list 
\family sans 
lyx-devel@lists.lyx.org
\family default 
.
 We try to keep it up to date as far as possible, but of course it's better
 to spend time fixing bugs instead of archiving them.
 Since we cannot reproduce all of these bugs, please send us any details
 and updates and, of course, fixes.
\layout Section

How do I submit a bug report?
\layout Standard

All bug reports should always include information about which versions of
 LyX the bug appears in (you will be surprised to know how many forget that
 information).
 Try to get the latest version of LyX and see if the problem still exist
 before complaining.
 New releases will typically contain bug fixes :-) 
\layout Standard

Remember: the less time the developers have to spend to understand and fix
 a problem, the faster the problem is likely to be fixed.
\layout Standard

Other than that, the good bug report is characterized by including 
\emph on 
all
\emph default 
 relevant information and only that.
 It's always relevant what the problem is, and how the problem is triggered.
 If it's a compilation problem, include 
\family typewriter 
\size small 
config.log
\family default 
\size default 
 and information about your system (
\family typewriter 
\size small 
uname -a
\family default 
\size default 
), which compiler you use, versions of libraries and so on.
\layout Standard

If you found a bug that causes LyX to crash, please take the time to produce
 a backtrace with a non-stripped lyx executable.
 The one built in the source directory is per default not stripped, while
 the installed binary is stripped.
 So, run LyX from gdb by typing 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
\size small 
gdb /users/bozo/lyx-1.0.x/src/lyx
\family default 
\size default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and then 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
\size small 
run
\family default 
\size default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 Make LyX crash and you'll return to gdb.
 Use 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
\size small 
bt
\family default 
\size default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 to produce a backtrace and include the output in the bug report
\begin_float footnote 
\layout Standard

if you want to be thorough, use the 
\latex no_latex 

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

info locals
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

up
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 commands to print out the values of local variables at a few stack levels.
\end_float 
.
 If possible, then a description of a way to reproduce the bug is more important
 than a backtrace, because then we have the possibility to roll our own
 backtrace.
 If the bug is not easily reproducible, a backtrace is essential, because
 then that might be all we've got.
\layout Standard

Bug reports should be mailed to the developer's list at
\family sans 
 lyx-devel@lists.lyx.org
\family default 
.
 However to avoid that we get cluttered with the same bug reports from many
 people, we recommend that you either check the archive of the developer's
 mailing list at 
\family typewriter 
http://www.mail-archive.com/lyx-devel@lists.lyx.org/
\family default 
 or subscribe to the list first.
 If you want to be a real sport, you provide a patch along with the bug
 report.
\layout Section

Bugs
\layout Enumerate

The LyX keyboard mappings, including dead-keys, do not work in pop-up dialogs.
 You can try cut & paste from a text editor.
\layout Enumerate

It is not possible to enter 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
dj{}
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
DJ{}
\family default 
 as LaTeX accent insets; this means that these characters are not available
 to people who want to use latin1 as encoding.
\layout Enumerate

On a very small (
\begin_inset Formula \( 640\times 480 \)
\end_inset 

?) screen, math panel pops up the subpanels off screen.
 It should check it's position, and put the panels somewhere visible.
\layout Enumerate


\family sans 
Options\SpecialChar \menuseparator
Keyboard
\family default 
 has no 
\family sans 
Apply
\family default 
 and 
\family sans 
Cancel
\family default 
 buttons.
 [
\emph on 
Note from Asger: Well, I think the entire form should be redesigned, such
 that it isn't dynamic.
 Also, it should not be possible to select a non-existing keyboard mapping.
 In other words, the drop-down list should show exactly those that are available.
 Similarly, the charset definition should be a droplist too.
 
\emph default 
] 
\layout Enumerate

The vertical scroll bar of the preamble window is broken.
 If you resize the window, strange things can happen, including a fatal
 crash! This is a bug in XForms.
 [
\emph on 
Note from Jean-Marc: things are a bit better now, but not perfect.

\emph default 
 ]
\layout Enumerate

Navigation by table of contents (ToC) is limited by Section Number Depth,
 rather than ToC Depth.
 If you have Section Number Depth of 1, but ToC of 2, clicking on any of
 the numbered sections takes you to the right point in the document.
 But clicking on a (unnumbered) Subsection takes you to the beginning of
 the Section, rather than to the subsection.
\layout Enumerate

If you have a footnote (or margin note) in a section heading, the text after
 this not will not appear in the ToC popup.
\layout Enumerate

When several insets are placed consecutively (this can happen with error
 insets), clicking on an inset can result in opening the wrong one.
 A workaround is to use 
\family sans 
C-o
\family default 
, with the cursor placed just before the desired inset.
\layout Enumerate

The 
\family sans 
Citation Reference
\family default 
 command doesn't escape 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
_
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 characters in the remarks field when generating TeX documents.
 You have to type 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
_
\family default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 by hand in these remarks if you want to use an underscore.
 Similar for other special characters.
\layout Enumerate

If a figure is larger than one page down press would have taken you, the
 page down fails and you are left where you started.
 [
\emph on 
Comment: behavior in this situation is improved but still imperfect.
 LyX now does the pageup or pagedown, but jumps from the top to the bottom
 of the figure, potentially skipping part of the middle.]
\layout Enumerate

If you delete marked text, the text is not deleted, but 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

cut
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, which deletes the current text in the clipboard.
\layout Enumerate

Sometimes, when you delete large sections of text, the screen will appear
 empty, and you have to use the scrollbar to make the cursor visible again.
\layout Enumerate

You can not export a selection from LyX to another X11 program.
 Not even between two instances of LyX.
 You can only paste into LyX using the middle mouse button.
 
\layout Enumerate

If you have edited and then undo all changes, then the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Changed
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 status is not reset.
\layout Enumerate

If you have a margin note in itemize text and the first paragraph of the
 margin note is also itemize text it is possible to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

depth-increment
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and make the first itemize paragraph in the margin note deeper on-screen
 even though LaTeX doesn't permit this (and ignores this).
 
\layout Enumerate

A table which is larger than the screen manages to go outside the red lines
 drawn by a table float.
 Same goes for figures.
 A similar thing can happen with large mathematical equations.
 Resize your LyX window.
\layout Enumerate

It is not possible to include footnotes in tables.
 
\layout Enumerate

The numbering policy of LyX does not exactly match what LaTeX does for sections:
 for example, LyX resets subsection 
\emph on 
and
\emph default 
 subsubsection counters at a new section, while LaTeX does not reset the
 subsubsection counter.
 As a workaround, you can add 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
setcounter{subsubsection}{0}
\family default 
, marked as TeX, just after the section heading.
\layout Enumerate

LyX is not able to render correctly 
\family sans 
Paragraph
\family default 
 and 
\family sans 
SubParagraph
\family default 
 headings which, in standard LaTeX classes, are just placed at the start
 of the following paragraph.
 This can be confusing.
\layout Enumerate

LyX sometimes gets caught by TeX fonts ligatures: for example, in the sentence
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

He said 'Hello!'
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, the single and double closing quotes come out inverted (just try to preview
 this paragraph).
 The only sollution is to write it as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

He said 'Hello!'
\latex latex 

\backslash 
textcompwordmark
\latex default 

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, which is admittedly not very nice.
\layout Enumerate

When going into math text mode (which results in 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
mathrm{}
\family default 
 in the LaTeX output) it is impossible to enter punctuation, as this is
 always put back into math mode.
\layout Enumerate

If a LaTeX command is partially bold, it doesn't generate correct LaTeX
 commands.
 LaTeX commands written using the LaTeX layout or the LaTeX font state should
 always use the standard font (this means no font changing commands should
 be allowed).
 Don't use font changing commands when you are in LaTeX mode.
\layout Enumerate

If you change font in a special word (like in 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\bar under 
L
\bar default 
aTeX
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

), the whole word will have the font of the first character in dvi output.
 This can be solved by using for example 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\bar under 
L
\bar default 
\latex latex 
{}
\latex default 
aTeX
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, thus disabling the automatic translation to the macro 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
LaTeX
\family default 
.
\layout Enumerate

In a LyX-Code environment, you can't have an empty line.
 You'll have to type a single space to make it work.
\layout Enumerate

In LyX-Code and in paragraphs written completely using the typewriter font,
 all spaces are protected so that LaTeX isn't able to perform correct formatting
 of the text.
 You'll have to insert linebreaks manually.
\layout Enumerate

It is possible to use the subfigure style to get two small figures (side-by-side
), each with a caption and label, and then a common caption and label for
 the entire figure.
 LyX currently seems to support this in the pop-up menu for an eps figure.
 However, I am unable to successfully add labels to each of the subfigures.
 If I insert a label next to each subfigure, the labels appear fine and
 can be cross-referenced in the usual manner.
 However, the actual output (dvi or ps) does not distinguish between the
 two labels and any cross-reference gets the same number.
 You have to use plain old raw LaTeX mode and do this by hand.
\layout Enumerate

If you close a document while some included images are still in the rendering
 phase, all images in newly opened documents will stay in the rendering
 phase, making it impossible to preview or print the document.
 You can't fix this by killing gs-processes, because there aren't any.
 You'll have to restart LyX to work with figures again.
\layout Enumerate

If you preview an empty document, no dvi-file will be created, and xdvi
 will not start.
 We should present a kind warning to the user rather than be silent.
\layout Enumerate

Document that includes others: if LaTeX reports an error during the execution
 of LaTeX on a sub-document as a chain reaction of executing LaTeX on a
 higher level document, LyX places the error window on the correct position
 of the higher level doc, not of the lower one.
 There might be some spurious document corruption effects related to this.
 Be careful with raw LaTeX in sub-documents.
\the_end
