#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrlttr2
\begin_preamble
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%% Here you can modify the layout of your letter
%% Have a look at the KOMA script documentation
%% for details. Most commands are commented out
%% here (i.e. we use default settings)
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%% Load an *.lco style file (see KOMA documentation)
\LoadLetterOption{DIN}%                          

%% THE CLASS OPTIONS
%% Remove preceeding '%' to uncomment an item
\KOMAoptions{%
%headsepline=true,%            separate the header with a line on page >1
%footsepline=true,%             separate the footer with a line on page >1
%pagenumber=botcenter,%   position of the page number (see docu)
%parskip=false,%          Use indent instead of skip (more options cf. docu)
fromalign=center,%        alignment of the address
fromrule=aftername,%    separate the address with a line?
fromphone=true,%         print sender phone number
%fromfax=true,%          print sender fax number
fromemail=true,%           print sender e-mail address
fromurl=true%               print sender URL
%fromlogo=true,%         print a logo (position depends on fromalign)
%addrfield=false,%        print an address field?
%backaddress=false,%  print the back address?
%subject=afteropening,titled,% alternative subject layout and position
%locfield=narrow,%      width of the (extra) location field
%foldmarks=false,%      print foldmarks?
%numericaldate=true,%  date layout
%refline=wide%             layout of the refline
}

%% Customize Separators
%\setkomavar{placeseparator}{ -- }
\setkomavar{backaddressseparator}{ $\cdot$ }
%\setkomavar{emailseparator}{ --> }
%\setkomavar{enclseparator}{ > }
%\setkomavar{faxseparator}{ --> }
%\setkomavar{phoneseparator}{ --> }
%\setkomavar{subjectseparator}{ >>> }

%% Customize fonts
%% Use LaTeX's standard font commands
%% Modify with \setkomafont or \addtokomafont
%% (see KOMA documentation)
\setkomafont{backaddress}{\rmfamily}
%\setkomafont{descriptionlabel}{}
\setkomafont{fromaddress}{\small}
\setkomafont{fromname}{\scshape}
%\setkomafont{pagefoot}{}
%\setkomafont{pagehead}{}
%\setkomafont{pagenumber}{}
%\setkomafont{subject}{}
%\setkomafont{title}{}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language ngerman
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman palatino
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.15
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks false
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Stichwortverzeichnis
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language german
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Name
Das LyX-Entwicklerteam
\end_layout

\begin_layout SenderAddress
Planstr.
 140
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

99999 Planstadt
\end_layout

\begin_layout Telephone
0011/222
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

333
\end_layout

\begin_layout E-Mail
lyx-users@lists.lyx.org
\end_layout

\begin_layout URL
www.lyx.org
\end_layout

\begin_layout Backaddress
Das LyX-Entwicklerteam
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Planstr.
 140
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

99999 Planstadt
\end_layout

\begin_layout Signature
Das LyX-Team
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subject
Neues KOMA-Brief-Layout
\end_layout

\begin_layout Place
Im Internet
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
today
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset include
LatexCommand input
filename "../addressExample.adr"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Address
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
WILBOE
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Opening
Hallo lieber Wilhelm,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
dieses Beispiel zeigt einen Serienbrief an 
\series bold
eine einzelne Person
\series default
 der Adressdatenbank.
 Der Aufbau von Adressdatenbanken ist in der unten angegebenen Dokumentation
 beschrieben.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Die Vorlage beschreibt den Gebrauch der neuen scrlttr2-Klasse, die mit KOMA-Scri
pt 2.9 eingeführt wurde.
 Diese, den europäischen Bedürfnissen angepasste Klasse, ist sehr flexibel.
 Im LyX-Menü 
\family sans
Dokument\SpecialChar \menuseparator
Einstellungen\SpecialChar \menuseparator
LaTeX-Vorspann
\family default
 finden sich die Einstellmöglichkeiten der meisten gebräuchlichen Parameter.
 Die KOMA
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

"=
\end_layout

\end_inset

Script
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

"=
\end_layout

\end_inset

Dokumentation
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
target "ftp://ftp.dante.de/tex-archive/macros/latex/contrib/koma-script/scrguide.pdf"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset

 liefert weitere Hinweise.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Closing
Viel Spaß!
\end_layout

\begin_layout PS
P.
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

S.: Blaufarbige Items sollen vor der Adresse eingefügt werden, magentafarbige
 danach.
\end_layout

\begin_layout CC
Die LyX-User
\end_layout

\begin_layout EndLetter
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
keep this environment empty
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
