#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin /systemlyxdir/doc/ar/
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
% DO NOT ALTER THIS PREAMBLE!!!
%
%This preamble is designed to ensure that the document prints
% out as advertised. If you mess with this preamble,
% parts of the document may not print out as expected.  If you
% have problems LaTeXing this file, please contact 
% the documentation team
% email: lyx-docs@lists.lyx.org

% the pages of the TOC is numbered roman
% and a pdf-bookmark for the TOC is added
\pagenumbering{roman}
\let\myTOC\tableofcontents
\renewcommand\tableofcontents{%
  \pdfbookmark[1]{\contentsname}{}
  \myTOC
  \cleardoublepage
  \pagenumbering{arabic} }
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language arabic_arabi
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "palatino" "Scheherazade"
\font_sans "helvet" "Scheherazade"
\font_typewriter "courier" "Scheherazade"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf4
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Introduction to LyX"
\pdf_author "LyX Team"
\pdf_subject "LyX-documentation Intro"
\pdf_keywords "LyX, documentation"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 2
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle false
\pdf_quoted_options "linkcolor=black, citecolor=black, urlcolor=blue, filecolor=blue, pdfpagelayout=OneColumn, pdfnewwindow=true, pdfstartview=XYZ, plainpages=false"
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language french
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
وهنا ملخص:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
\SpecialChar TeX
 تكس: لغة تنضيد مع ماكرو كفء.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
\SpecialChar LaTeX
 لتيك: حزمة ماكرو مبنية على تكس\SpecialChar endofsentence

\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\lang english
classes
\lang arabic_arabi
 نوع: مواصفات لأنواع من المستندات تستخدم في لتيك.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\lang english
styles
\lang arabic_arabi
 الاسلوب: مواصفات للسلوك الافتراضي لعناصر مختلفة في لتيك.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
\SpecialChar LyX
 ليك: برنامج بصري, لتحرير النصوص يعتمد على مبدأ 
\begin_inset Quotes fld
\end_inset

ما تراه هو ما تريده
\begin_inset Quotes frd
\end_inset

 ويستخدم لغة لتيك للتنضيد.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
ويهدف هذا القسم لشرح الفرق بين ليك ومعالجات النصوص الاخرى.
 ببساطة، لاتك تمثل الفرق، ليك يساعدك على التفكير أكثر حول ما تكتب (وليس
 كيف تكتب).
 ثم يقوم الحاسب بما ينبغي القيام به.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
