#LyX 2.4 created this file. For more info see https://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 598
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass scrbook
\begin_preamble
% DO NOT ALTER THIS PREAMBLE!!!
%
% This preamble is designed to ensure that the manual prints
% out as advertised. If you mess with this preamble,
% parts of the manual may not print out as expected.  If you
% have problems LaTeXing this file, please contact 
% the documentation team
% email: lyx-docs@lists.lyx.org

% the pages of the TOC are numbered roman
% and a PDF-bookmark for the TOC is added
\pagenumbering{roman}
\let\myTOC\tableofcontents
\renewcommand{\tableofcontents}{%
 \pdfbookmark[1]{\contentsname}{}
 \myTOC
 \cleardoublepage
 \pagenumbering{arabic}}

% extra space for tables
\newcommand{\extratablespace}[1]{\noalign{\vskip#1}}
\end_preamble
\options bibliography=totoc,index=totoc,BCOR7.5mm,titlepage,captions=tableheading
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
logicalmkup
theorems-ams
theorems-ams-extended
multicol
shapepar
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children no
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding auto
\font_roman "lmodern" "default"
\font_sans "lmss" "default"
\font_typewriter "lmtt" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_roman_osf false
\font_sans_osf false
\font_typewriter_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf2
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "LyX's Additional Features manual"
\pdf_author "LyX Team"
\pdf_subject "LyX's additional features documentation"
\pdf_keywords "LyX, Documentation, Additional"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle false
\pdf_quoted_options "linkcolor=black, citecolor=black, urlcolor=blue, filecolor=blue, pdfpagelayout=OneColumn, pdfnewwindow=true, pdfstartview=XYZ, plainpages=false"
\papersize a4
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\use_lineno 0
\notefontcolor #0000ff
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 1
\math_indentation default
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle headings
\tablestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\change_bars false
\postpone_fragile_content false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict true
\docbook_table_output 0
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Additional \SpecialChar LyX
 Features
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subtitle
Version 2.3.x
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
by the \SpecialChar LyX
 Team
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\noindent
Principal maintainer of this file is
\noun on
 Richard Heck
\noun default
.
 If you have comments or error corrections, please send them to the \SpecialChar LyX
 Documentati
on mailing list, 
\begin_inset Flex Code
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
<lyx-docs@lists.lyx.org>
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:Inserting-TeX-Code"

\end_inset

Inserting \SpecialChar TeX
 Code into \SpecialChar LyX
 Documents
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Anything you can do in \SpecialChar LaTeX
 you can do in \SpecialChar LyX
, for a very simple reason: You can
 always insert \SpecialChar TeX
 code into any \SpecialChar LyX
 document.
 \SpecialChar LyX
 cannot, and will never be able to, display every possible \SpecialChar LaTeX
 construct.
 If ever you need to insert \SpecialChar LaTeX
 commands into your \SpecialChar LyX
 document, you can use the
 
\begin_inset Flex Code
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\SpecialChar TeX
 Code
\end_layout

\end_inset

 box, which you can insert into your document with 
\begin_inset Flex Noun
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Insert\SpecialChar menuseparator

\family sans
TeX
\family default
 Code
\end_layout

\end_inset

 or the keyboard shortcut 
\begin_inset Info
type  "shortcut"
arg   "ert-insert"
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Here's an example of inserting \SpecialChar LaTeX
 commands in a \SpecialChar LyX
 document.
 The code looks like this:
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code

\backslash
begin{tabular}{ll}
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\backslash
begin{minipage}{5cm}
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

This is an example of a minipage environment.
 You 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

can put nearly everything in it, even (non-floating) 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

figures and tables.
 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\backslash
end{minipage}
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

&
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\backslash
begin{minipage}{5cm}
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\backslash
begin{verbatim}
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\backslash
begin{minipage}{5cm}
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

This ...
 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\backslash
end{minipage}
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\backslash
end{verbatim}
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\backslash
end{minipage}
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\backslash
end{tabular}
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Cross-References Between Files
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Box Shadowbox
position "t"
hor_pos "c"
has_inner_box 1
inner_pos "t"
use_parbox 0
use_makebox 0
width "100col%"
special "none"
height "1in"
height_special "totalheight"
thickness "0.4pt"
separation "3pt"
shadowsize "4pt"
framecolor "black"
backgroundcolor "none"
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This section is somewhat out of date.
 Need to describe default master documents and how children are opened when
 the master is.
 [[FIXME]]
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
AMS \SpecialChar LaTeX

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These same environments are provided only in the starred versions by the
 
\begin_inset Flex Code
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Theorems (Starred)
\end_layout

\end_inset

 module:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Theorem
This is typically used for the statements of major results.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Corollary*
This is used for statements which follow fairly directly from previous statement
s.
 Again, these can be major results.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Lemma
These are smaller results needed to prove other statements.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Proposition
These are less major results which (hopefully) add to the general theory
 being discussed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Conjecture
These are statements provided without justification, which the author does
 not know how to prove, but which seem to be true (to the author, at least).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Definition*
Guess what this is for.
 The font is different for this environment than for the previous ones.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Example*
Used for examples illustrating proven results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
It's not really known what this is for.
 You should figure it out.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Exercise*
Write a description for this one.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Remark
This environment is also a type of theorem, usually a lesser sort of observation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Claim*
Often used in the course of giving a proof of a larger result.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Case
Generally, these are used to break up long arguments, using specific instances
 of some condition.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Case
The numbering scheme for cases is on its own, not together with other numbered
 statements.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Proof
At the end of this environment, a QED symbol (usually a square, but it can
 vary with different styles) is placed.
 If you want to have other environments within this one—for example, Case
 environments—and have the QED symbol appear only after them, then the other
 environments need to be nested within the proof environment.
 See the section 
\emph on
Nesting Environments
\emph default
 of the 
\emph on
User's Guide
\emph default
 for information on nesting.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And these environments are provided by 
\begin_inset Flex Code
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Theorems (AMS-Extended)
\end_layout

\end_inset

:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Criterion*
A required condition.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Algorithm*
A general procedure to be used.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Axiom*
This is a property or statement taken as true within the system being discussed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Condition*
Sometimes used to state a condition assumed within the present context of
 discussion.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Note*
Similar to a Remark.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Notation*
Used for the explanation of, yes, notation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Summary
Do we really need to tell you? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Acknowledgement*
Acknowledgement.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Conclusion*
Sometimes used at the end of a long train of argument.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Fact
Used in a way similar to Proposition, though perhaps lower on the scale.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In addition, the AMS classes automatically provide the AMS \SpecialChar LaTeX
 and AMS fonts
 packages.
 They need to be available on your system in order to use these environments.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
