#LyX 2.4 created this file. For more info see https://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 599
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass maa-monthly
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children no
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding auto
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_roman_osf false
\font_sans_osf false
\font_typewriter_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 2
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\use_lineno 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tablestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\change_bars false
\postpone_fragile_content false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\docbook_table_output 0
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Sample Article Title
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Woodrow Wilson and Herbert Hoover
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
An abstract should not contain concrete mathematics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
First-level section heading.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section heading.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Biographies

\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Author Biography
\begin_inset Argument 1
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Woodrow Wilson
\end_layout

\end_inset

received his Ph.D.
 in history and political science from Johns Hopkins University.
 He held visiting positions at Cornell and Wesleyan before joining the faculty
 at Princeton, where he was eventually appointed president of the university.
 Among his proudest accomplishments was the abolition of eating clubs at
 Princeton on the grounds that they were elitist.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Affiliation
Office of the President, Princeton University, Princeton NJ 08544
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

twoodwilson@princeton.edu
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author Biography
\begin_inset Argument 1
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Herbert Hoover
\end_layout

\end_inset

entered Stanford University in 1891, after failing all of the entrance exams
 except mathematics.
 He received his B.S.
 degree in geology in 1895, spent time as a mining engineer, then was appointed
 by his co-author to the U.S.
 Food Administration and the Supreme Economic Council, where he orchestrated
 the greatest famine relief efforts of all time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Affiliation
Hoover Institution, Stanford University, Stanford CA 94305
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

herbhoover@stanford.edu
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\end_body
\end_document
