#LyX 2.4 created this file. For more info see https://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 598
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass tufte-book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children no
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding auto
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_roman_osf false
\font_sans_osf false
\font_typewriter_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf2
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command bibtex
\index_command default
\float_placement class
\float_alignment class
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\use_lineno 0
\notefontcolor #0000ff
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tablestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\change_bars false
\postpone_fragile_content false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\docbook_table_output 0
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\series bold
Note
\series default
: To be able to view your file as PDF you must have the \SpecialChar LaTeX
-package 
\family sans
fpl
\family default
 installed to your \SpecialChar LaTeX
 system.
 If you are using MiK\SpecialChar TeX
, you will automatically be asked to install this package
 when previewing your file, if you are using \SpecialChar TeX
Live, use \SpecialChar TeX
Live's package manager.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\series bold
Note 2
\series default
: If you wish to compile to PDF with plain \SpecialChar LaTeX
 (instead of pdf\SpecialChar TeX
), there is currently
 a bug in the Tufte class that causes errors.
 You can add the class option 'nols' (put this in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Custom
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 field of Document\SpecialChar menuseparator
Settings \SpecialChar menuseparator
Document Class) to get rid of the errors, but
 this also removes letterspacing, an important part of the Tufte design.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Title
Tufte Examples
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Fake Author
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
author of this example file: Jason Waskiewicz
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
The Features of the Tufte-book Class
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this document, it was endeavored to show some of the features of the
 
\family sans
Tufte-book
\family default
 class.
 In the first chapter, their use is outlined.
 In the second chapter, their use through a handout that was created in
 a calculus class is demonstrated.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Working with Text
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the most prominent and distinctive features of this style is the
 extensive use of sidenotes.
 There is a wide margin to provide ample room for sidenotes and small figures.
 Any footnotes will automatically be converted to sidenotes.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This is a sidenote that was entered using a 
\family typewriter
footnote
\family default
.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Alternatively, you can also use the 
\family typewriter
Sidenote
\family default
 inset directly; you'll find it in the 
\family sans
Insert\SpecialChar menuseparator
Custom Insets
\family default
 menu.
\begin_inset Flex Sidenote
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This is a sidenote that was entered using a 
\family typewriter
sidenote
\family default
.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you like to place ancillary information in the margin without the sidenote
 mark (the superscript number), you can use the 
\family typewriter
Marginnote
\family default
 inset.
 
\begin_inset Flex Marginnote
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This is Tufte's margin note.
 Notice that there isn't a number preceding the note, and there is no number
 in the main text where this note was written.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 The normal margin note will work as well, but it will look rather odd.
\begin_inset Marginal
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This is a normal margin note.
 Don't use it.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Flex NewThought
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Another useful
\end_layout

\end_inset

 innovation is Tufte's 
\family typewriter
NewThought
\family default
 character style (
\family sans
Edit\SpecialChar menuseparator
TextStyle\SpecialChar menuseparator
NewThought
\family default
).
 It introduces new thoughts by means of small caps, as demonstrated in this
 paragraph.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Tufte document classes include two new character styles and some improvement
s on existing commands for letterspacing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When setting strings of 
\begin_inset Flex AllCaps
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
ALL CAPS
\end_layout

\end_inset

 or 
\begin_inset Flex SmallCaps
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
small caps
\end_layout

\end_inset

, the letterspacing—that is, the spacing between the letters—should be increased
 slightly.
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Bringhurst2005"
literal "true"

\end_inset

 The 
\emph on
AllCaps
\emph default
 character style (
\family sans
Edit\SpecialChar menuseparator
TextStyle\SpecialChar menuseparator
AllCaps
\family default
) has proper letterspacing for strings of 
\begin_inset Flex AllCaps
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
FULL CAPITAL LETTERS
\end_layout

\end_inset

, and the 
\emph on
SmallCaps
\emph default
 character style (
\family sans
Edit\SpecialChar menuseparator
TextStyle\SpecialChar menuseparator
SmallCaps
\family default
) has letterspacing for 
\begin_inset Flex SmallCaps
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
small capital letters
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 These commands will also automatically convert the case of the text to
 upper- or lowercase, respectively.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The normal 
\emph on
Small Caps
\emph default
 shape has also been redefined to include letterspacing.
 Its case is left as is, however.
 This allows one to use both uppercase and lowercase letters: 
\shape smallcaps
The Initial Letters Of The Words In This Sentence Are Capitalized.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, the
\emph on
 Full Width
\emph default
 paragraph environment provides a paragraph layout that stretches across
 the main text block and the sidenotes area:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Full Width
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit.
 Ut purus elit, vestibulum ut, placerat ac, adipiscing vitae, felis.
 Curabitur dictum gravida mauris.
 Nam arcu libero, nonummy eget, consectetuer id, vulputate a, magna.
 Donec vehicula augue eu neque.
 Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames
 ac turpis egestas.
 Mauris ut leo.
 Cras viverra metus rhoncus sem.
 Nulla et lectus vestibulum urna fringilla ultrices.
 Phasellus eu tellus sit amet tortor gravida placerat.
 Integer sapien est, iaculis in, pretium quis, viverra ac, nunc.
 Praesent eget sem vel leo ultrices bibendum.
 Aenean faucibus.
 Morbi dolor nulla, malesuada eu, pulvinar at, mollis ac, nulla.
 Curabitur auctor semper nulla.
 Donec varius orci eget risus.
 Duis nibh mi, congue eu, accumsan eleifend, sagittis quis, diam.
 Duis eget orci sit amet orci dignissim rutrum.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "../../../lib/examples/biblioExample"
options "plainnat"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
