#LyX 1.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass IEEEtran
\language english
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\float_placement hbt
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Your Title: And maybe a bit extra
\layout Author


\begin_inset Info Remember that initial submissions don't show the authors
names so you'll need to make this a 'Comment'.
\end_inset 

Your Name, Your Co-Author
\latex latex 

\backslash 
thanks{
\latex default 
Your name is with xyz Department\SpecialChar \ldots{}

\latex latex 
}
\layout Abstract

This paper presents a simple template for IEEEtran documents.
 
\layout Keywords

simplicity, beauty, elegance
\layout MarkBoth

This is for left pages
\latex latex 
}{
\latex default 
and this is for right pages
\layout Section

Introduction
\begin_inset Info Don't panic the section numbering may look different in
LyX but LaTeX uses the correct Roman numerals and
Alpha for section counters.

It's just that LyX doesn't handle counters other than arabic
numerals.
\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
PARstart{T}{here}
\latex default 
 is a need for a little Evil Red Text in the first paragraph.
 Refer to the IEEEtran documentation (sample document) for more details.
\layout Section

Previous Work
\layout Standard

This is only a template remember.
\layout Section

Methodology
\layout Theorem


\latex latex 
[
\latex default 
Theorem name
\latex latex 
]
\latex default 
 For a named theorem or theorem-like environment you need to use a little
 evil red text (LaTeX mode) around the name.
\layout Lemma

If you don't want a theorem or lemma name don't add one.
\layout Proof

And here's the proof!
\layout Section

Results
\layout Standard

\begin_float fig 
\layout Standard
\align center 

\family sans 
A single column figure goes here
\layout Caption

Captions go 
\emph on 
under
\emph default 
 the figure
\end_float 
\begin_float tab 
\layout Caption

Table captions go 
\emph on 
above
\emph default 
 the table
\layout Standard
\align center \LyXTable
multicol5
2 2 0 0 -1 -1 -1 -1
1 1 0 0
1 1 0 0
8 1 0 "" ""
8 1 1 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""

delete
\newline 
this
\newline 
example
\newline 
table
\end_float 
\layout Section

Conclusions
\layout Comment


\begin_inset Info Change this paragraphs style to 'Standard' to enable
BibTeX bibliography generation.

Remember though that your final submission is supposed to have
all the bibliography entries embedded in the latex file.  This means
you eventually have to copy the .bbl file into the latex file and
remove the bibtex lines.
\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \BibTeX[IEEEbib]{your_biblio_file}

\end_inset 


\layout Biography


\latex latex 
{
\latex default 
Your Name
\latex latex 
}
\latex default 
 All about you and the what your interests are.
 Don't forget to put your name in between a pair of {}'s that are set as
 raw TeX.
\layout LaTeX

% This LaTeX comment is needed to force LyX to generate two separate environment
s
\newline 

\layout Biography


\latex latex 
{
\latex default 
Coauthor
\latex latex 
} 
\latex default 
Same again for the co-author.
\the_end
