#This file was created by <karger> Tue Jan 26 17:48:36 1999
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1998 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass revtex
\options aps,manuscript

\layout Title

Insert your Title Here
\layout Author

Author1
\begin_float footnote 
\layout Standard

Author to whom correspondence should be addressed
\end_float 
 and Author2
\layout Address

Insert the name of your university, company, or institute here.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Info You don't have to write \maketitle.. LyX does this by itself.
\end_inset 


\layout Abstract

Insert your abstract here.
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

Introduction goes here.
\layout Standard

By the way, any of the style options, like 
\family typewriter 
prl
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
preprint
\family default 
 should go in the 
\family sans 
Extra
\protected_separator 
Options
\family default 
 field in the 
\family sans 
Document
\protected_separator 
Layout
\family default 
 popup (accessed from the 
\family sans 
Layout
\family default 
 menu).
\layout Section

Insert section title here
\layout Standard

Section 2 text goes here.
 
\layout Standard

Special REVTeX 3.1 macros must be typed in TeX mode, so typing 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
openone
\family default 
 in TeX mode yields 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
openone{}
\latex default 
.
 (See the REVTeX manual for other macros.) REVTeX macros can also be used
 freely in the math editor, so you can type 
\begin_inset Formula \( \sqrt{\overstar {a}}>\overcirc {b} \)
\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

You can do a bibliography by hand, as shown below, or erase that, and use
 BibTeX.
 If you use BibTeX, don't forget to use a REVTeX bibliography style file,
 such as 
\family typewriter 
prsty.bst
\family default 
.
 With either method, you can cite references with the LyX citation commands
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{mycitation}

\end_inset 

.
\begin_inset Info If you get question marks instead of numbers in your references,
re-run LaTeX (File->update dvi)
\end_inset 


\layout Bibliography
\bibitem {mycitation}

Author, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Title
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, Journal 
\series bold 
Volume
\series default 
, page--numbers (year).
\the_end
