#This file was created by <karger> Thu Sep 23 10:54:03 1999
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass revtex4
\options aps,manuscript

\layout Preprint

This line only printed with preprint option
\layout Title

Insert your Title Here
\layout Author

Author1
\layout Author Email

foo@bar.edu
\begin_inset Info Make sure to put any Email, URL, and Thanks layouts IN
BETWEEN the Author layout and the corresponding Address
layout for that author.
\end_inset 


\layout Author URL

http://bar.com/~foo
\layout Thanks

Thanks to you, Mrs.
 Robinson!
\begin_inset Info Use Thanks layout instead of inserting footnotes.
Footnotes in the title will do weird things in RevTeX 4!
\end_inset 


\layout Address

Address for author 1 
\layout Author

Author2
\layout Author Email

bar@foo.edu
\layout Address

Address for author 2
\layout Abstract

Insert your abstract here.
 It should be interesting.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Info You don't have to write \maketitle.. LyX does this by itself.
\end_inset 


\layout Section

introduction
\layout Standard

By the way, any of the style options, like 
\family typewriter 
prl
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
preprint
\family default 
 should go in the 
\family sans 
Extra
\protected_separator 
Options
\family default 
 field in the 
\family sans 
Document
\protected_separator 
Layout
\family default 
 popup (accessed from the 
\family sans 
Layout
\family default 
 menu).
 See the RevTeX 4 manual for style options, special macros, and the like.
\layout Section

methods
\layout Standard

Special REVTeX macros must be typed in TeX mode, so typing 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
openone
\family default 
 in TeX mode yields 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
openone{}
\latex default 
.
 REVTeX macros can also be used freely in the math editor, so you can type
 
\begin_inset Formula \( \sqrt{\overstar {a}}>b \)
\end_inset 

, for example, which uses the RevTeX 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
overcirc
\family default 
 command.
\layout Standard

You can do a bibliography by hand, as shown below, but it may be easier
 to erase that and use BibTeX.
 If you use BibTeX, use the RevTeX bibliography style file, 
\family typewriter 
revtex.bst
\family default 
.
 With either method, you can cite references with the LyX citation commands
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{mycitation}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Bibliography
\bibitem {mycitation}

Author, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Title
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, Journal 
\series bold 
Volume
\series default 
, page--numbers (year).
\the_end
