#This file was created by <karger> Wed May 12 10:56:40 1999
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\paperfontsize 11
\begin_preamble
%some comments

%comments
\def\blah{\blahblah}
% And more comments

%more comments
\end_preamble

\layout Title

Test Document
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents

\end_inset 


\layout Section

First Section
\layout Standard

This 
\size large 
a 
\size small 
b 
\size tiny 
c
\size small

\size large
 
\size huge 
d
\size large

\size default
 is some text. 
\latex latex 

\backslash framebox[3in][s]{
\latex default 
What are you doing 
\SpecialChar \ldots{}
Dave
\latex latex 
}
\latex default 
.
 This is more text.
\layout Section*

MySection
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:mysection}

\end_inset 

This is some 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

quoted
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 text in a new section.
 I 
\emph on 
am
\begin_float footnote 

\layout Standard

This is a great footnote because: 
\layout Itemize

The footnote is not 
\emph on 
emphasized
\emph default 
. 
\layout Itemize

The text is 
\layout Standard

How cool is that!?
\end_float 


\emph on 
 emphasizing 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

text.
\layout Standard


\emph on 
I keep
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 emphasizing
\emph default 
.
 This 
\protected_separator 
 is text in a new par\SpecialChar \-
agraph.
\newline 
 It has 
\SpecialChar \ldots{}
an 
\begin_inset Formula \(  \alpha \)
\end_inset 

 in it, which is OK\SpecialChar \@.
 I can type special characters
\begin_float footnote 

\layout Standard

i.e., characters which must be escaped
\end_float 

 like & and #.
\layout Standard

_ is a neat token.
 Now I 
\family sans 
want 
\family typewriter 
to
\family sans 
 write
\family default 
 some math in a displayed equation. 
\begin_inset Formula \begin{eqnarray*} 
q^{(i)}_{O} & = & q^{water}_{O}+dq_{O}\times (P_{deg}^{(i-1)}-P_{deg}^{(i)})\\
q_{H}^{(i)} & = & q^{water}_{H}+dq_{H}\times (P_{deg}^{(i-1)}-P_{deg}^{(i)})\\
q_{p}^{(i)} & = & q^{water}_{H}+dq_{H}\times (P_{deg}^{(i-1)}-P^{(i+1)}_{deg})
\end{eqnarray*}
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Here's an itemized list 
\layout Itemize

this is an item 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

this is a numbered item
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

But now I want to write some text. 
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

this is another numbered item
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

More text 
\end_deeper 
\end_deeper 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

Yet more text
\end_deeper 
\layout Itemize

this is another unnumbered item
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

Final text 
\end_deeper 
\layout Section

New Section
\layout Standard

Here's a 
\emph on 
quotation: 
\layout Quotation


\emph on 
Hello there how are you?
\layout Quotation


\emph on 
I am fine.
 Thanks 
\layout Standard


\emph on 
This
\emph default 
 is a reference to section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:mysection}

\end_inset 

 on page 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \pageref{sec:mysection}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard



\LyXTable
multicol5
2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
2 0 0 "" ""
2 0 0 "" ""
0 2 0 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 0 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 0 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 0 0 0 0 0 "" ""

 foo 
\newline 
 bar 
\newline 
 bar 
\newline 
 foo 

\layout Standard

Final Text. 
\the_end
